---
author: 'Fran Simó'
title: "Notes about Minoan civilization"
date: 2025-02-06
tags:
  - reference
  - Majorca
  - Crete
  - Tantra
  - Maenad
  - Dionysus
  - Minoan
  - Sibyl
  - YouTube
---

# Notes

From various readings and the videos below, I have taken the following notes:

- Minoan priestesses led a religion that worshipped both a female deity, the Goddess of Serpents, and a male deity, the
  Bull.
- The Goddess of Serpents could be the predecessor of Demeter and Persephone.
- It is unclear whether it was a matriarchal society.
- The palaces were centers of religion, trade, and work. Historians use them to establish the periods of their history.
- Although there were kings and queens, neither their art depicts them nor do their documents mention names.
- They had no army. They were invaded and rebuilt. Until approximately 1400 BC. Depending on the source, almost 1000
  years without an army.
- They traded with Egypt, Anatolia, and mainland Greece.
- They produced wine, oil, and wheat.
- Their autonomy (the name they used for their people) is unknown.
- Deforestation in Crete may have begun with the construction of ships.

# Hypotheses/ideas

- It may seem that the research is about the Goddess, but I am more interested in the figure of the priestesses. Real
  women with a practice, techniques, a lineage, and a role in society.
- Although the background is “known,” it is important to remember the balance between the feminine and the masculine in
  both men and women. This can be achieved with the techniques we know. The search is more oriented toward evoking these
  aspects, finding a language that helps us remember.
- In one of Eva's videos, she comments on the possibility of a balanced religious direction (feminine/masculine). In the
  readings I do at random, the aspect of the Goddess or the shamanic (iatromantes, for example) is often discussed, but
  I have not yet found any references to balance.
- The Minoan priestesses could have taught the Maenads who maintained the cult of Dionysus, which was more politically
  correct after the fall of the Minoan civilization.
- Both have a clear link to the figure of the Sibyl, who apparently did not officiate ceremonies but used the same
  techniques of altered states of consciousness. And to the tantric women.
- They would also have a connection with my suspicion that the cult of the Sibyl in Mallorca has a prior link with some
  female deity who was not politically correct after the genocide of Jaume I.
- The Minoans, like the Mallorcans, have lost their proper name over time.
- When I see the fresco of the young man jumping over the bull and the two priestesses, I wonder why it is always said
  that they also jumped. It could be that they are accompanying him in taming his inner bull. In the fresco, the women
  are in front, grabbing the bull by the horns, and behind, waiting for the man. They seem to be in control of the
  situation.

# Sources

Wikipedia https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Minoan_civilization

## Eva Tobalina and Europe roots

### Part 1

{{< youtube E8vjJP92evE >}}

### Part 2

{{< youtube soCVDZHusUI >}}

### Part 3

{{< youtube K1UO84OaJSc >}}

### Part 4

{{< youtube OX_8E0NT0Vs >}}

### Part 5

{{< youtube 3PLHRwN2Qzc >}}
